Latest update:
2025-08-04 11:08:55
2087
Daraz Webhook Onboarding
What is Daraz Webhook?

Daraz webhook is a notification message that is sent automatically from the Daraz seller center to your desired interface such as an ISV or ERP system whenever a designated event occurs. Webhook notifications can ensure that you do not miss any activity on and changes in statuses, on Daraz seller center.



Getting started with Daraz Webhook

Step 1 : Prepare your callback url to receive notifications from Dazop Message Service.

Step 2: Understanding push mechanism details include authorization, retry, etc.. and finish your coding.

Step 3: Fill your url in and verify it.

Step 4: Subscribe the messages.



Step 1 : Prepare your callback url to receive notifications from Dazop. 

It must be a https with CA certs.

Certification muse be authorized by CA. Self-signed certs are not acceptable.

Certs must be OV or EV. DV is not working. (know more about certs level : https://www.digicert.com/difference-between-dv-ov-and-ev-ssl-certificates).



Step 2 : Understanding push mechanism details include authorisation, retry, etc.. and finish your coding.

After have your call back url, you need to know what a push looks like. Order msg have two types of messages : trade order message and reverse order message. Trade order message triggered when trade order actions happens. trade order actions includes all you can do to a order except return and refund. When customer decide to return, refund, a reverse order message will be sent.



Authorization:

#Header:Only you need to know is the 'Authorization' tag since that is the signature.
#More details about it will be covered later.

#1.
POST /example/uri HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 1238
Authorization: 34f7b258df045d4ed9341850ca85b866f34828fd7d51862f11137216294a894c
#body

{
"seller_id": "100056775", #seller id
"message_type": 14,
"data": {
"trade_order_id": "57244869716603", #trade order id which mapping to the order_id in API
"buyer_id": "1001916603", # buyer id of the order
"fulfillment_package_id": "FP018711048499663", #fulfilment id which maps to (NEED HELP HERE)
"status": "DELIVERED", //status enumeration #fulfilment status
"status_update_time": 1627440482 #timestamp of the order fulfilment status update
},
"timestamp": 1627441249, #timestamp of push
"site": "daraz_pk" #site info
}






To make sure the request is sent from Dazop and the request data is complete, Dazop will generate a signature and put it into request header. Client can reproduce the signature and compare it to the one received in message before consuming.



Signature is generated by Hex-encoded HMAC-SHA256.

/*
Base = {your_app_key} + "{message_body_you_receieved}"
Secret = {your_app_Secret};
*/
Authorization = HEX_ENCODE(HMAC-SHA256(Base, Secret));






Sample Java Code to reproduce the signature :

mport org.slf4j.Logger;
import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;

import javax.crypto.Mac;
import javax.crypto.spec.SecretKeySpec;

/**
* 签名工具类
* @author Jeremy
* @date 2020/12/01
*/
public class SignatureUtil {
private static final String HMAC_SHA256 = "HmacSHA256";

private static final Logger LOGGER = LoggerFactory.getLogger(SignatureUtil.class);

/**
* Hmac-SHA256
* @param base {AppKey} + {messageBody}
* @param secret {AppSecret}
* E.g.: AppKey = 123456, AppSecret = 3412gyo124goi3124
* messageBody ：{"seller_id":"1234567", "message_type":0, "data":{...}..}
*
* base = "123456" + "{\"seller_id\":\"1234567\", \"message_type\":0, "data":{...}..}"
* secret = 3412gyo124goi3124
* signature = getSignature(base, secret);
* signature = f3d2ca947f16a50b577c036adecd18bec126ea19cadedd59816e255d3b6104ab
* @return 签名
*/
public static String getSignature(String base, String secret) {
try {
Mac sha256Hmac = Mac.getInstance(HMAC_SHA256);
SecretKeySpec secretKey = new SecretKeySpec(secret.getBytes(), HMAC_SHA256);
sha256Hmac.init(secretKey);
return byteArraytoHexString(sha256Hmac.doFinal(base.getBytes()));
} catch (Exception e) {
LOGGER.error("Failed to generate signature");
}
return null;

}

/**
* Hex Encode
* @param bytes
* @return
*/
private static String byteArraytoHexString(byte[] bytes) {
if(bytes == null) {
return null;
}
StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();
String stmp;
for (byte aByte : bytes) {
stmp = Integer.toHexString(aByte & 0XFF);
if (stmp.length() == 1) {
sb.append('0');
}
sb.append(stmp);
}
return sb.toString().toLowerCase();
}
}






Success acknowledge and retry :

You need to ack with Http status code 200 with in 500ms

If you fail to do 1, server will retry sending the message after 30 mins.

If retry fails again, server will retry in another 30 mins.

If you fail more than 12 times or you successfully do 1 before 12 times, server will stop retrying.





Step 3: App Console self-test, self-access.

Log in to https://open.daraz.com/, and enter the Message Service tab after logging in.

1. Fill in the callback address and click Verify.

image.png

Verify will automatically send a test message to the filled address, if the return meets expectations, it will prompt success.



image.png



2. After the verification is successful, select the message type to subscribe, and click Save in the upper right corner, it will prompt another success message.

image.png



Step 4: Go production and best practice

Congratulations, now that you have successfully subscribed to the webhook you would be able to check your push log in the API Push Log Tab.



You may now use the Order Fulfilment Update webhook to be constantly updated of where your parcel is after being shipped, and ensure that your parcel does not breach the order SLA duration. If in cases where your parcel is delayed at any fulfilment checkpoints, do reach out to the relevent checkpoint hotlines or the seller help centre to enquire.





FAQ:

1. I need the IPs of push servers to do ip white-listing, can you guys provide the ips ?

Dazop recommends to use signature on authorization header to check the origin of pushes. No further supports on IPs from Dazop.



2. Some sellers message are missing.

Server will check the authorization between sellerId and appkey. If the auth is revoked or expired, server will abort the pushing. You can verify the authorization by checking the token that you use for calling the API.

